README.md, before:

# Solid Notifications Panel

The mission of the Notifications Panel as part of the W3C Solid Community Group (CG) is to extend or define technical protocols and vocabularies to facilitate notification exchange on the Open Web Platform.

This panel has a [charter](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/notifications-panel-charter.md).

## Work Items

|Work Item|Repository|Expected Completion|
|-|-|-|
|[Solid Notifications Protocol](https://solid.github.io/notifications/protocol)|https://github.com/solid/notifications|2022-12-30|


## Participation

All contributors to any Work Items must be members of the Solid CG. It’s easy to [join the CG](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join).

Anyone can join the [Solid Notifications Panel chat](https://gitter.im/solid/notifications-panel).

Online panel meetings occur weekly on Thursdays, 14:00 UTC at https://meet.jit.si/solid-notifications . Meetings are transcribed and [published](https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/tree/main/meetings/).

## Code of Conduct

All work and communication within the Solid CG is covered by the [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md) and the [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/).

Commit message:

Fix: emphasize tentative nature of meetings (#102)

README.md, after:

# Solid Notifications Panel

The mission of the Notifications Panel as part of the W3C Solid Community Group (CG) is to extend or define technical protocols and vocabularies to facilitate notification exchange on the Open Web Platform.

This panel has a [charter](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/notifications-panel-charter.md).

## Work Items

|Work Item|Repository|Expected Completion|
|-|-|-|
|[Solid Notifications Protocol](https://solid.github.io/notifications/protocol)|https://github.com/solid/notifications|2022-12-30|


## Participation

All contributors to any Work Items must be members of the Solid CG. It’s easy to [join the CG](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join).

Anyone can join the [Solid Notifications Panel chat](https://gitter.im/solid/notifications-panel).

A **tentative** slot for online panel meetings is held open on Thursdays, 14:00 UTC at https://meet.jit.si/solid-notifications. Please refer to the [chat](https://gitter.im/solid/notifications-panel) for concrete meeting plans and agendas. Meetings are transcribed and [published](https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/tree/main/meetings/).

## Code of Conduct

All work and communication within the Solid CG is covered by the [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md) and the [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/).
