# W3C Solid Community Group: Notifications Panel

* Date: 2021-12-16T15:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-notifications
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/notifications-panel
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel
* Status: Draft

## Present
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.


### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* name

### Introductions
* name: text

---

## Topics

### Who should merge suggestions in PRs?

* SC: I've reconsidered "who should merge suggestions" in PRs - which was briefly discussed in <https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/blob/main/meetings/2021-11-25.md#incorporate-feedback-to-webhook-proposal>. I'd like to change my position: All suggestions should be approved by the proposer of the PR or the editors of the target document. It is ultimately their role and responsibility, and we should make sure not to overstep, even if all well intended. If the proposers/editors are not attending to the suggestions in a timely manner, we can look into other options, like calling for more editors.


### Why does notification negotiation happen through an endpoint rather than in a resource-oriented way?
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/14

* SC: Created https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/355 about specifying discovery and description of authoritative information about the server on the Solid Protocol (SP) level. This information can essentially cover "communication options", which would be one of the things we need to visit in the Notifications Protocol (NP) for the Discovery of the Notification Gateway: https://solid.github.io/notifications/protocol#notification-gateway
* SC: NP should use the solution coming out of 355.
* SC: Current method relies on `.well-known/solid` but that may not be suitable. May be at risk (as mentioned in previous 2021-10-25 meeting) and we should revisit / PR etc.


## Add Solid Notification JSON-LD context
URL: https://github.com/solid/vocab/pull/62

* SC: AC created the JSON-LD context. Please review.
* SC: We'll need to follow-up on creating the vocab: http://www.w3.org/ns/solid/notification


### Solid Notifications Protocol ~FPWD

* SC: ~FPWD is expected for 2021Q4 milestone as per panel charter: https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/notifications-panel-charter.md
* SC: Current state of the spec seems fit for ~FPWD. Any reason we can't or should hold off?
* SC: Solid Protocol will release a 0.9.0 soon (tomorrow) and it needs to refer to either the ED or ~FPWD. ~FPWD would be better.


### Reconsider necessity of gateway API in notification protocol
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/24


### Notifications Protocol Tests
* SC: Any requirements from specs?
* SC: Create `solid/solid-notifications-tests`?
* SC: What should the initial tests cover, e.g., browser based?
* SC: In a past meeting, Pete said: "I expect to work on capability in CTH during Q1 2022 - sounds like it fits for starting to test implementations". Let's continue from there.
