# W3C Solid Community Group: Notifications Panel

* Date: 2021-11-11T15:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-notifications
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/notifications-panel
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel
* Status: Published

## Present
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* [Kevin Howard](https://khoward.inrupt.net/profile/card#me)
* Pete Edwards
* Aaron Coburn
* Justin Bingham
* [Ted Thibodeau](https://github.com/TallTed)
* Angel Araya
* Jamie Fiedler
* Elf Pavlik

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.


### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* Kevin Howard


### Introductions
* All attendees know each other.

---

## Topics

### Use Cases and Requirements
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/pull/32

* SC: "Deliver UCR by 2021-10-28" is marked as a "~FPWD" milestone on GitHub as per https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/blob/main/meetings/2021-09-16.md .
* SC: Per Charter, the UCR draft can be 2021-Q4.
* The PR'd UCR is not equivalent to FWPD. In the 2021-10-14, I've asked if anyone would like to work on it but no one volunteered, so we had to postpone assignment.
* SC: I've created the initial UCR document in any case. We need to move this forward. Unless there are objections, I'd like to continue author/edit this document. We need additional coauthors/editors. I'm happy to step down as well as long as there is some ownership.
* SC: No volunteers. I will continue any way.
* JB: Do we have a general initial target for the scope? How deep? How specific? Something less verbose that the Interop one?
* SC: Personally, one sentence for use case would be better than nothing. Target should be one sentence.
* elf: Re: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/issues/30 How do we get these into the UCR document?
* SC: Maybe a simple as PRing to the document.
* elf: Better to merge the current PR and then submit as new PR.
* SC: OK with this.
* elf: Who adds RDFa?
* SC: Will take ownership of doing this.
* elf: Will follow up with PRs once initial PR is merged.
* AC: +1 on merging initial PR.

RESOLUTION: merge PR 32. Follow up with new PRs for UCs.

* AC: Determining what is in and out of scope is the most contentious issue. Prefer to get a clear set of use cases and then determine which are in and out of scope.
* JB: +1
* SC: +1

* eP: Re: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/issues/1 Should take a look at these use cases to determine the differences between them. Seem to be some duplication.
* SC: Set does not capture everything the panel needs to consider. If you think they are duplicates, we can just add one of them.
* eP: We could follow up in the issue over the next weeks.
* SC: We can close issue once we have a PR.
* TT: Can github.io be setup?
* SC: Yes. Was thinking using https://htmlpreview.github.io/. Would this work? Need to get HTML link (go to "Files Changed" page, expand "..." menu on relevant file, right-click on "View file" and choose "Copy link address") and paste into input field on https://htmlpreview.github.io/.
* TT: Seems a lot of hoops. Can GitHub Actions be used to publish to github.io?
* SC: GitHub Pages used for the spec.
* eP: Good to have line length. 100 characters max?
* JB: +1, TT: +1
* eP: https://github.com/marketplace/actions/html-preview? Maybe use to automate?


#### Request reviews from Solid Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Team (DEIT)
* SC: PRE-PROPOSAL. DEIT https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/DEI%20Team , https://gitter.im/solid/DEIT , https://github.com/solid/deit ) to review each Use Case.
* SC: Acknowledged/approved by DEIT https://github.com/solid/deit/blob/main/meetings/2021-11-09.md#deit-to-review-use-cases-in-specification-development .
* Mentioned also at TPAC 2021: https://github.com/solid/specification/blob/main/meetings/2021-10-27.md#panel-participation and Editors meeting: https://github.com/solid/specification/blob/main/meetings/2021-11-10.md#deit-to-review-use-cases-in-specification-development

* SC: Idea is to run use cases through a separate team - DEIT - to confirm they are within the goals of Solid. Suggest this is a good idea. Good support from the Solid Editors for doing this.
* KH: How quickly DEIT can turn reviews around?
* SC: In the minutes. DEIT Editors are notified when a PR is created. The team meets monthly. Sense is they can do in a week or so, but needs to be tested. If no response within reasonable time, suggest re-review, and then merge.
* TT: Review on every PR seems overkill, and may overload DEIT. Maybe periodic review?
* eP: +1
* SC: If we go in that direction, shall we wait for Draft of UC document and then ping?
* TT: Have them review draft documents?
* JB: +1. Have them review full body of the report. Draft feels like the right time.
* SC: Need to consider ~FPWD (Q4) and reasonable time for DEIT to review if and when we have the UC document. If we have a draft, they would probably look at it in the New Year.

PROPOSAL: Request review from DEIT for the UC

* SC: +1 (editors hat)
* AC: +1
* PE: +1
* JB: +1
* TT: +0.5 (completeness of doc still seems in question to me ... also wondering about other horizontal reviewers)
* eP: +1 - periodic not each PR

PROPOSAL: Request reviews of later added UCs after ~FPWD of UC(R)

* SC: +1 (editors hat)
* eP: +1
* KH: +1
* AC: +1
* TT: +1

RESOLUTION: Request reviews from DEIT in 2022-Q1.


### Incorporate feedback to Webhook Proposal
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/pull/34

* SC: Feedback from meeting: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/blob/main/meetings/2021-10-28.md#webhooks-proposal
* SC: Thanks for following up. Okay with me. Please consider incorporating Ted's suggestions in the PR.
* SC: PRE-PROPOSAL: Move solid-webhooks-notifications to solid/notifications ?
* SC: OK to approve. Take note of TT's suggestions.

PROPOSAL: Move solid-webhooks-notifications to solid/notifications (after merge of PR 34)

* SC: +1
* eP: +1 - we should keep current .md format till possible change coordinated with Jackson
* PE: +1
* TT: +1

* eP: Open to co-editing.
* SC: Assume Jackson will move.

RESOLUTION: Move solid-webhooks-notifications to solid/notifications

ACTION: eP: reach out to Jackson to coordinate merging PR#34 and moving document


### Notifications Protocol Tests
* SC: FPWD Secure Web Sockets spec is due by 2021-11-25 (that's an internal date/aim as opposed to charter's 2021-Q4).
* JB: What is the expectation of the Secure Web Sockets spec deliverable? No one seems to be working on it. Draft in 2 weeks? Or ready for iterative review?
* eP: core spec or core + websockets sub type?
* TT: This is early draft of what we are working on. Just to give general understanding of the approach.
* PE: My focus is on making sure capabilities are in the Conformance Test Harness. Will write some, but focus is not on writing tests.
* SC: Editors/authors or others to create the tests.
* AC: +1 on having editors involved and/or leading the writing of tests.
* KH: Noting group agreement. No objection.
* TT: Tests are being written to the spec being delivered in 2 weeks?
* SC: Initial proposal had some use cases, but they need to be pulled into separate doc.
* AC: We have informal UCs. We need to formalize them soon.
* SC: Tests don't have to be ready until ~CR.
* SC: Are there people interested in making use of a test suite? When?
* AC: I'm interested in making use of a test suite (and working on writing one).
