# W3C Solid Community Group: Notifications Panel

* Date: 2022-11-24T14:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-notifications
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/notifications-panel
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel
* Status: Published


## Present
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* elf Pavlik
* [Rahul Gupta](https://cxres.pages.dev)

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.


### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* Sarven


### Introductions

* name: text

---

## Topics

* SC: Keeping the topic focus to work we need to iron out for the next release.

### WIP Implementation Feedback
* SC: We'll allocate some time for implementation feedback. Links to servers/applications and demos welcome.

>ACTION: eP to reach out to Jackson


### WebHooks

* eP: CSS will most likely release something like the `0.1` version. We can version the new one — my proposal — as `0.2`. To do that, we need to tag the current version as `0.1` so there is a reference for implementations. Later we can start calling it `0.2` or so. That will avoid situations where implementors implement something untagged.
* SC: +1

ACTION: eP to tag current webhook-subscription-2021 version as `0.1` https://github.com/solid/notifications/blob/main/webhook-subscription-2021.md

ACTION: eP to update draft PR to webhooks as `0.2` https://github.com/solid/notifications/pull/113

* eP: Is current markdown enough to have it as versioned as `0.1`?
* SC: If you can update current `.md` with minimal work do it.
* eP: Should we have a stable URL for `v0.1`?
* SC: Why not leave `0.1` as MD and `0.2` can be the HTML at GH Pages?
* eP: Both CSS and Jackson's client implement `0.1`; it would be good to have a stable URI for it.
* RG: If someone is targeting this implementation, should they refer to the version number or increment the year-like suffix?
* RG: I remember Aaron saying that, since the names are arbitrary, we just have to have unique names. Uniqueness between v1 or v2 would be adding suffix `0.1` or adding a year, e.g., `2022`.
* eP: We can change the year for major revisions. This is for minor, so we can bump to `0.2` and reuse `2021`.
* SC: Fine with that too.
* RG: The expectation with zeros is that changes can be breaking.
* SC: I think it's very early in maturity level of the notifications spec. I would suggest we keep 2021 and mark them as `0.1` and `0.2`, etc.
* eP: Will do bikeshed and publish at GH pages. Keep in mind that it'll be the same URL for each `0.x` version. Should we take it slow with `0.2`?
* eP: Is https://solidproject.org/TR/2022/notifications-protocol-20220509 a frozen snapshot for `0.1.0`?
* SC: Yes.
* eP: So protocol `0.2.0` will have a different stable URL
* SC: Yes.
* SC: Would be possible to release `0.1` for now?
* SC: `0.1` is already released; it's there. I would be careful going through the whole TR process.
* SC: Work on `0.2` and update it however you want. It is OK if we just release `0.2` as the first TR.
* eP: I'm ok with it, though it adds extra overhead.

ACTION: eP to propose webhook-subscription-2021 version `0.2` as a TR (based off GH Pages of webhook-subscription-2021 ED).


### Release of the spec
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/blob/main/meetings/2022-11-10.md#release-of-the-spec

>ACTION: SC to review https://hackmd.io/3sLhQvmKTVKQKoXeXLSTpA
>ACTION: SC to create a project board for the releases.

* SC: Still a to-do.
* SC: Our original charter ends this year.
* SC: I would propose we concentrate on open PRs and Issues and other low hanging fruits
* RG: A lot in my doc are low hanging fruit; we just need to focus for 30min on each point.
* SC: I'm just trying to get PRs out.
* RG: I think it's easier to discuss it first before making a PR.
* SC: If you can wait a week, maybe we can close off open PRs
* eP: We can pick 3 topics to discuss in next meeting. And PR based off that.
* SC: +1
* RG: There are 6 topics. 2 are minor changes in language.
* SC: I just like the idea that we walk through it next week. We can make it first agenda point for next week.


### Update Notifications UCR
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/issues/76

>SC: I'll review https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/pull/79

* SC: Did partial review. Okay to merge but I think it needs adjustments — we generally agreed on that, if I'm not mistaken anyway.
* RG: I saw you proposed minor changes to the language.
* SC: I wasn't able to separate processing of the notifications.
* RG: I wanted to process the first subscription request and separately process the request for modification.
* SC: Could you clarify?
* RG: First subscription request creates the subscription; following request would be to modify the already existing subscription.
* SC: Do you trust me to just continue with the review and merge it with some changes? I think we went little off course with how we express the UCs.
* RG: I would still like to add other cases which I see as less essential but still useful to capture.
* eP: +1 we will still have to iterate


### Considerations

* SC: We may be able to process these security considerations quickly.
* RG: You need to explain what is the context here.


#### Add consider-exposing-information
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/pull/117

* RG: +1
* eP: +1

#### Add consider-subscription-resource-trust
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/pull/118

* RG: +1
* eP: +1 and will follow up on separate issue or PR.

#### Security and Privacy Review
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/119

* SC: We can do this once we've lightened our todos.



### Update conformance model
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/pull/120

* eP: [HTML preview](https://htmlpreview.github.io/?https://github.com/solid/notifications/blob/b4b4f3f8b33f65ab1b456351492e802776f04504/protocol.html#conformance) 
* SC: I mostly want to clarify the 3 classes of products
* RG: What is the diff?
* SC: The whole section is new
* SC: I think we should discuss 1.4.2 and 1.4.4; I don't mind if we use different terms.
* SC: We have a resource which is on some server, could be any server (maybe not even solid protocol backed). We have an application that wants to watch for updates. That thing where you get channel information is still some sort of resource server; we don't expect it to be backed by a notification server. 
* RG: Notification server needs further defining, we have some specific requirements there.
* SC: The first paragraph just says that it identifies specific classes of products and the specification defines them further.
* RG: My concern is that we didn't want to use the words `client` and `server` in protocol; we also shouldn't use them here. We were talking about `requester` and `sender`; something to consider.
* SC: In PR, I said we should update requirements throughout the document; I didn't want to add it in this  PR to avoid to many changes. I'll do it in follow-up PR.
* SC: We will need to look again at diagrams as well.
* eP: +1. I'd like to take time to review and try to get some agreement for next meeting and then merge. I find the `client` problematic, especially target / subscription types, and where the `client` acts as a `server`. The roles changes become confusing. One `client`, one `server`.
* SC: I didn't want to add too much about types of products specific to subscription types. I thought subscription types will describe their own classes of products.
* ...: We have different subscribers; some of them keep open connection, others act as server receiving requests. 
* eP: Nod. Then we narrow to subscription flow. The actual notification flow will be something like subscription type. Notification types or subscription types... Subscription types further specify the protocol. Who is making the subscription request, and who is returning?
* SC: All the products that we specify there would be referenced by each requirement. If a requirement talks about something as unique, we should define it as a product.
* eP: The client subscribes and then maybe unsubscribes. In theory, that can be different client/software acting in the domain of subscriber. Different responsibilities and maybe isolate. Should be a single or specific/granular... subscribing/unsubscribing.
* SC: It is a design consideration; you could indefinitely divide those roles. I think it would be reasonable to say each client needs to be able to subscribe and unsubscribe. Let's be pragmatic about how useful those categorisations are.
* RG: If we use HTTP client to define what is the client. I think it could be the same client. 

ACTION: eP to review.

### Update Notification Data Model
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/pull/124

* SC: Replaces URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/pull/60 and resolves... https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/123
* SC: I thought it would be a lot of work. There was also another issue having to do with referencing AS2.0 core rather than AS2.0 Vocabulary.
* eP: I approved, OK with merging it.
* RG: I'm fine with all of this. This should be base standard, and we should allow server to implement other things as well.
* SC: In the next update, we could clean up the JSON-LD context information. This has to do with next topic.
* RG: I already noted it in issue #60
* SC: For this section, it is only a data model, even not so much about serialization. Since the spec is mostly requiring JSON-LD, the examples are following that. I think we can have other examples in the spec in other sections.
* RG: I was saying that you can have any message sent, and that shouldn't be a problem provided that server and client agree.
* SC: Sometimes it is an editorial call, how simply you want to communicate the minimum interop parts. If you only include parts that are essential, you can get more mileage. In Jackson's PR, for example, he provides actor who creates the resource, which you may not want to expose in some cases.
* RG: I'm fine with that
* RG: I'm ok to merge, and I can add an issue to add things from my notes.


### Remove specific constraint of JSON-LD compacted-document-form
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/pull/122

* SC: Resolves https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/105
* eP: I think it relates to "In JSON-LD representations, `https://www.w3.org/ns/solid/notification/v1` can be used as the JSON-LD Context", which doesn't really mandate.
* SC: I was aiming at "if the context is used, this is the value and protected". I would accept rephrasing that.
* eP: I think Aaron wants client to be able to rely on specific JSON-LD compaction and not have to parse it as JSON-LD at all. Client would only treat it as JSON.
* SC: To do that, we need to make a lot more. The table in that PR covers why we remove those discrepancies.
* eP: Is it to have http://www.w3.org/ns/json-ld#compacted profile be restricted to use the specific context?
* ...: So if server receives that profile in conneg, it MUST use that context to compact it?
* SC: You can have expanded document form and use the same vocab. 
* eP: I think we need to address https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/454 first. I believe that requirement in this PR doesn't meet Aaron's goals to not use JSON-LD at all.
* SC: I think, for now, we are just saying it's JSON-LD friendly, and if you use context, use that context.
* SC: I don't know if we can resolve it in this PR. If we can have it improved in future PR, this would be better.

ACTION: eP to review.
