# W3C Solid Community Group: Notifications Panel

* Date: 2022-12-22T15:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-notifications
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/notifications-panel
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel
* Status: Published


## Present
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* elf Pavlik
* [Rahul Gupta](https://cxres.pages.dev)
* [Eric Jahn](https://alexandriaconsulting.com/files/eric_jahn.rdf#me)

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts
* [W3C Solid Community Group Calendar](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/solid/calendar).
* [W3C Solid Community Group Meeting Guidelines](https://github.com/solid/specification/blob/main/meetings/README.md).
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.
* Topics can be proposed at the bottom of the agenda to be discussed as time allows. Make it known if a topic is urgent or cannot be postponed.


### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* SC
* eP


### Introductions
* name: text

---

## Topics

* SC: Keeping the topics focused on work we need to iron out for the next release.

### WIP Implementation Feedback
* SC: We'll allocate some time for implementation feedback. Links to servers/applications and demos welcome.


### Update data models
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/pull/135

>ACTION: eP: create issue on considering request as requirement or preference, and can server overwrite desired channel properties or has to reject if can't satisfy

>ACTION: eP to create issue discussing need for `channel` defined in the vocab or just in JSON-LD context.

* RG: We didn't specify â€” how does the request and response work when you want to modify the subscription?
* SC: Not in this PR; we still didn't reach consensus with this feature. We might need an issue for it.
* RG: I think we have an issue for it.
* eP: is there something problematic in [135](https://github.com/solid/notifications/pull/135) if we don't include updating now?
* RG: No, but it will have to deal with the data model (eventually). I don't see a problem as another thing, but it should be part of the next release.
* SC: That feature would require an update to both the protocol and data model.
* eP: RG, do you have a specific proposal? We can take care of this PR and then create issues to work together toward a PR for updating the subscription. Still need a clear approach.

ACTION: RG to check existing issues or create an issue to track updating subscriptions.
RG: https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/103

* SC: I tried to incorporate all the comments. I think there are 2 or 3 which I still didn't get to.
* ...: Pavlik suggested we could get rid of the terminology.
* eP: In general, terminology makes sense if there is no dedicated section and a term is used throughout the spec. On the contrary, all the terms we have in terminology have their own section. In that case, those sections are normative, and we can reuse them. It could clean up linking.
* SC: I suggest we walk through each term and see. I'm +0.75 to removing if they can belong elsewhere.
* SC: Let's dive into it using my screen share
* SC: There is also the issue of clarifying when the subscription step is needed
* eP: I'm ok to have it as dedicated PR
* SC: We can still try to get it in [135](https://github.com/solid/notifications/pull/135)
* SC: I also pointed out possible collision of `startTime` with AS JSON-LD context mapping

ACTION: Issue for https://github.com/solid/notifications/pull/135#issuecomment-1361127017

* eP: https://www.w3.org/TR/2012/REC-owl2-primer-20121211/#Property_Characteristics
> Note that this statement does not require every individual to have a husband, it just states that there can be no more than one. Moreover, if we additionally had a statement that Mary's husband is James and another that Mary's husband is Jim, it could be inferred that Jim and James must refer to the same individual.

* eP: Channel can only have one `startTime`. If there is more than one, it would be invalid. In practice, functional property definition: two `startTime`s entails they are the same. Not sure if we can use `FunctionalObjectProperty` and `DataTypeProperty` together ... It is safe for now and have separate issue. I think it is wrong definition in the AS2 vocab.
* SC: Maybe we consider using `startDateTime`/`endDateTime` in notifications JSON-LD context.
* SC: It only may collide in the case of notification data model because AS2 JSON-LD Context is not expected to be used in the other data model serializations.
* eP: We can have our own start/end and no collisions. if so, we can resolve later.
* SC: We have this requirement of sending notification if state changed during the request
* eP: IMO we can leave it up to the client to re-check the state after the subscription response
* RG: The client gets burdened with the race condition.
* eP: I think it's easy with a single topic, it may differ with 50 or more topics
* RG: This is my use case, I watch the folder and all that it contains.
* eP: I think we should create an issue and in the end go with what will come out out of implementation experience.

ACTION: Create issue for `state`. Mentioned it is currently designed for single resource and doesn't handle multiple topics.

### Rename Subscription Resource to Subscription Service?

RG: I noticed #63 by Cristoph Braun who wants to rename `Subscription Resource` to `Subscription Service`.
eP: Subscribing has side effects.
eP: Create a separate pull request to make the change? 


### Target terminology

>ACTION: SC: will update LDN subscription type to use `target` instead of `inbox` and `sender` instead of `webid`.

>ACTION: eP: will update draft PR for Webhook to use `sender` instead of `webid`.


### Update sequence diagrams
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/pull/133

>ACTION: eP to update diagram if necessary as separate PR

>* SC: Just noting here that we can come back to 133 after 135.


### Add Solid Notification JSON-LD context
URL: https://github.com/solid/vocab/pull/62

* SC: Pass through once above issues/PRs are resolved.


### Updating or transitioning to channel types
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications#subscription-types

* SC: Transition https://solidproject.org/TR/notification-subscription-types to /TR/notification-channel-types?
* SC: notification-subscription-types is a living document and it is not versioned or persistence pledged. It could disappear but we have https://solidproject.org/TR/notifications-protocol and https://solidproject.org/TR/websocket-subscription-2021 referring to it.



### Release of the spec
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/blob/main/meetings/2022-11-10.md#release-of-the-spec
