# W3C Solid Community Group: Notifications Panel

* Date: 2022-03-17T14:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-notifications
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/notifications-panel
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel
* Status: Draft


## Present
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.


### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* name


### Introductions
* name: text

---

## Topics



### Is the "Solid Notifications Protocol" spec title too broad?
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/blob/main/meetings/2022-03-10.md#is-the-solid-notifications-protocol-spec-title-too-broad

* SC: Let's continue here (for 5-10 minutes).


### Publication of Notifications Protocol ~FPWD
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/blob/main/meetings/2022-03-10.md#publication-of-notifications-protocol-fpwd

* SC: I propose that we publish FPWD on 2022-03-31. We should be able to incorporate some (most?) of the ACTIONs we agreed. However, any outstanding action/todo should not block the publication. They can go into following drafts.

PROPOSAL: ...


RESOLUTION: ...

* SC: We have the following actions that we can take up ad-hoc as subtopics (if necessary):
  * AC and SC will look into notification discovery
  * SC container definition / POST re Protocol
  * eP Update subscription type for HTTP Streaming
  * eP Add inline issues to HTTP Streaming
  * AC to address the "endpoint" terminology
  * AC publish an index of notification types and link protocol document to that
  * eP add inline issues to webhooks spec
  * AC and SC add inline issues for other documents (protocol, WebSocket, LDN, EventSource)
