meetings/2022-02-24.md, before:

# W3C Solid Community Group: Notifications Panel

* Date: 2022-02-24T15:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-notifications
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/notifications-panel
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel
* Status: Published

## Present
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* TimBL
* Rahul Gupta
* Aaron Coburn

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.


### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* name

---

## Topics

### WIP Implementation Feedback
* SC: We'll allocate some time for implementation feedback going forward. Links to servers/applications welcome.


### Solid Protocol Server/Storage Description
URL: https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/355

* SC: Context being discovery of available notifications channels/features.
* SC: Storage description as opposed to server description is more likely.
* SC: Feasible for the current Notifications Protocol to help with client negotiation.


### Incorporate resource-centric discovery of notifications
* SC: Intention is to allow the simple/classic version of subscribing to resource updates - which was previously used for WebSocket. Questions/Considerations (see subtopics):
* SC: To what extent can the Notifications Protocol incorporate both simple and negotiation-based (the current mechanism in the spec, eg. via storage description)?
* SC: To what extent would it be possible for all subscription types? For example, can the simple version leave out notification channel features?

#### Classic WebSocket with the Updates-Via header
* SC: Using JSON-LD payload (instead of the pub/sub one line) will be compatible with the Notifications Data Model (leaning towards AS2).

#### Issues/challenges for all subscription types
* SC: ...

Commit message:

Mention document is only the agenda

meetings/2022-02-24.md, after:

# W3C Solid Community Group: Notifications Panel

* Date: 2022-02-24T15:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-notifications
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/notifications-panel
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel
* Status: Published

## Present
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* TimBL
* Rahul Gupta
* Aaron Coburn

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.


### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* name

---

## Topics

This meeting was not scribed. The topics below reflects only the agenda but not the discussion.


### WIP Implementation Feedback
* SC: We'll allocate some time for implementation feedback going forward. Links to servers/applications welcome.


### Solid Protocol Server/Storage Description
URL: https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/355

* SC: Context being discovery of available notifications channels/features.
* SC: Storage description as opposed to server description is more likely.
* SC: Feasible for the current Notifications Protocol to help with client negotiation.


### Incorporate resource-centric discovery of notifications
* SC: Intention is to allow the simple/classic version of subscribing to resource updates - which was previously used for WebSocket. Questions/Considerations (see subtopics):
* SC: To what extent can the Notifications Protocol incorporate both simple and negotiation-based (the current mechanism in the spec, eg. via storage description)?
* SC: To what extent would it be possible for all subscription types? For example, can the simple version leave out notification channel features?

#### Classic WebSocket with the Updates-Via header
* SC: Using JSON-LD payload (instead of the pub/sub one line) will be compatible with the Notifications Data Model (leaning towards AS2).

#### Issues/challenges for all subscription types
* SC: ...
