# W3C Solid Community Group: Notifications Panel

* Date: 2022-11-10T14:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-notifications
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/notifications-panel
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel
* Status: Published


## Present
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* [Rahul Gupta](https://cxres.pages.dev)
* Aaron Coburn
* elf Pavlik

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.


### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* name

### Introductions

* name: text

---

## Topics

* SC: Keeping the topic focus to work we need to iron out for the next release.

### WIP Implementation Feedback
* SC: We'll allocate some time for implementation feedback. Links to servers/applications and demos welcome.


### Simplify flow diagrams
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/pull/108

>ACTION: AC to update.

SC: Unsubscribe is still undefined in the protocol
eP: I think we should have tracking issue to define but let's drop it from diagram for now
AC: I can update it today in the afternoon.


### Release of the spec

SC: Our charter has milestone in the end of December. Given holidays it will be hard to get things done beyond November. We need to finish as much as we can. Can we commit to releasing next version of the spec?
AC: +1
eP: +1
SC: +1
SC: We should try to meet every week until then. It looks that meetings help us to finalize things.
AC: I agree, we should prioritize it. I will arrange things in a way to get it done.
SC: We should have some examples of implementations
eP: I think we should do milestone in github and be selective on what we try to address in next 3 weeks.
eP: I can also document Jackson's WebHook client implementation and there is open PR to CSS with server side. I'm also using that webhook client in my open source project.
SC: I recall discussion about documenting transition from old websocket to the new protocol.
SC: We should talk to Tim about how we continue to work. I suspect the notification work will not end in December.
RG: I want to push back a little bit.
...: 1. We don't have agreement on terminology, I should be able to use specific terms instead of 'that thing'.
...: 2. We should have clear use cases and requirements from those use cases. As well as design choices documented.
...: I think we are walking in circles sometimes. We should document all the decisions made.
SC: If the question is about bringing the spec into a better shape. I would be wary about introducing drastic changes.
RG: Even unsubscribing, how we connect to multiple resources etc. They are not drastic changes.
SC: Given the issues on the agenda, if we resolve them would you +1 the next release?
RG: I think solving those issues are necessary but not sufficient.
SC: Would you object leaving those issues to next release?
RG: Terminology no, design choices yes, use cases maybe.
SC: I created issue about updating UCR. Next release should include 3 documents:
...: Notifications Protocol
...: WebSocket Subscription Type
...: UCR
SC: +1
eP: +1 I will also put down some work into WebHook (which has implementations already)
AC: +1
RG: Where are we doing terminology?
SC: In the Notifications Protocol.
SC: If unsubscribe is going to be protocol level thing, it will require tracking subscription itself. It might need the URI etc.
eP: We should track it into separate issue, one could also just have unsubscribe URI and POST to it. There are options for doing it.
SC: Activity Streams for example would send unsubscribe activity.
SC: Subscription could be a resource in a container with it's own URI.
RG: In my notes I made a list of information which we need to pass back and forth to do it. https://hackmd.io/3sLhQvmKTVKQKoXeXLSTpA

ACTION: SC to review https://hackmd.io/3sLhQvmKTVKQKoXeXLSTpA

eP: For me having inline issues to what we still are working on would be required for the release.
SC: I think we should avoid throwing features as inline issues. For example Updates-Via discussion.
eP: Fine with me.

ACTION: SC to create a project board for the releases.

AC: We have a bunch of open issues, labels can help. If we target release 0.2 let's use it as label. What has this label is in scope.
eP: Milestones do it



### Discovery of Notification Subscription Metadata
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/58

>ACTION: AC to PR updating the requirement.

SC: We were trying to figure out which discovery approaches we are using in the spec. The approach was to use both for now. Meanwhile Solid Protocol ED includes storage description. The commit I made just adds both requirements.
eP: We discussed that client has to be informed if they can use global one and ignore resource specific one.
SC: I think if the resource specific one is provided it takes precedence. If it wasn't useful the server would not announce it.
AC: There are 3 scenarios:
...: 1 no discovery so no compliant subscription
...: 2 there is just one of them, than client follows the one available
...: 3 there are both, spec doesn't say anything about precedence, they could resolve to different resources.
eP: In case 3 if the local takes precedence or is not defined?
SC: For different reasons the storage description might not have even notifications channels
RG: I think this might make client life really difficult
AC: In RDF generally clients follow links, either in http header or in the payload. There might be multiple ways of getting the information. It is generally up to a client to define what they want to do. Client can ignore things that they don't understand. Client should be able to negotiate those options.
RG: What if those there is conflicting information.
AC: It can always happen in RDF, this is part of the web.
RG: As a client if I detect a conflict, how should I act?
AC: If I write a client, I would figure out which one is higher priority and go with that. I wouldn't try to compare the information.
SC: Is ok to leave a little bit of ambiguity.
...: It is sort of pay as you go approach. If you see some information locally use it, if not try storage wide.



### Add Solid Notification JSON-LD context
URL: https://github.com/solid/vocab/pull/62

>SC: We need to follow up on this after resolving some issues in solid/notifications (linked in the review). This should be published alongside the next release of the Notifications Protocol.




### JSON-LD structural requirements have issues
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/105




### Interchangeable use of notification channel type and subscription type
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/71



### Define Notification Content
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/pull/60

* SC: Not critical for the next release but the underlying intent would be useful for the spec.
* SC: At the very least, right now it highlights what may be overspecifying, constraining, exposing information.
* SC: We should consider a simpler / minimal model for conformance.
* SC: (I suggested a way that can be Notification Profiles)


### Update Notifications UCR
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/issues/76

* SC: I'll review https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel/pull/79


---

### Too Slow: Please provide Updates-Via shortcut to secure web socket address
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/110


### Notification Profiles
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/101

>Introduce the notion of Notification Profile as an extension of the core Notification Data Model.
>Specific Notification Profiles can then be independently published.
