# W3C Solid Community Group: Notifications Panel

* Date: 2022-09-29T14:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-notifications
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/notifications-panel
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel
* Status: Published


## Present
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* Aaron Coburn
* elf Pavlik

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.


### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* Sarven

### Introductions

* name: text

---

## Topics

### Add W3C Solid CG weekly meeting to Participation
URL: https://github.com/solid/specification/pull/458

* SC: Participation in panels is sparse. We are trying to get things moving, please check out linked PR!
* ...: I thought to make a poll but didn't want to get into a long discussion about what is going to work. I just went with what used to work before for CG, it helps timezones in Americas as well.
* ...: We can discuss panels in that meeting as well.


### WIP Implementation Feedback
* SC: We'll allocate some time for implementation feedback. Links to servers/applications and demos welcome.
* eP: Michiel brought up WIP using WebHook in Solid-Nexcloud https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/457#issuecomment-1261435144


### Simplify flow diagrams
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/pull/108

>ACTION: AC to do minor updates.

* AC: SC and I noticed that we had these terms source and target appeared before defined and was kind of confusing so we thought plain English category could work. but not fully committed to that. So, how can we present this that is in a way that is approachable e.g., TimBL talked about using Terminology makes sense in normal English. So how do we be precise and consistent in terms. So that's the context for all of this.
* eP: I agree that it might not be clear. Terms like pickup and delivery, the subscription is common for act of subscribing but then we have radical differences, publisher delivers notification to destination. Want to make it clear from prior conversations. It is not clear with delivery, where subscriber acts as server and the publisher acts as client. in case of delivery of notifications, the client-publisher is clear but then in delivery it switches. So there was some confusion in the early protocol e.g. from like TallTed about the roles and when they change.
* AC: We wan to come up with good terms. Don't wan tot bikeshed. If we can come up with set of terminology that is clear and concise, that's where we want to go. SHould be understandable for someone reading the specification for the first time.
* eP: What action can we take. Maybe being more verbose. Instead of source-target, also. Main point with "offline client" was what we call for target. Here the subscriber acts as server. if it is a server then it can't be offline. for me it wasn't working conceptually.
* AC: Specific suggestion will be roughly: (1) Where subscriber is the direct receiver of the notification and (2) Where the subscriber delegates the flow of notifications to some entity
* SC: Sender, Receiver used in HTTP / RFC.
* eP: Source based subscriptions. They could pass the capability URL to ??? I'm not sure if the delegation is significant. Subscriber either picks up from publisher. Or the publisher delivers the notifications where subscriber specifying the subscription. I suggest pickup/delivery. Relatable to anyone.
* SC: I don't like it, but I will not block it. It is archaic, based on physical stuff. We can use Sender and Receiver.
* eP: Sender/receiver helps because subscription/publisher in one flow never changes. How notifications are actually made available for the subscriber. For example, pickup/delivery is common/mid-space terminology. With logistics, point of origin and destination. We could fiddle with that. But that'd be another option. Less common terms but technical. At least clear with the difference.

ACTION: AC to update.

* SC: Main concern with the diagram was downplaying or removing the parts that did not have something specified by this spec itself, e.g., authorization. So we are good there I think.


### Discovery of Notification Subscription Metadata
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/58

>ACTION: AC to PR updating the requirement.

* SC: Spec says there is Storage Description and describedby. We could leave it as is, maybe language needs to be changed.
* AC: I haven't had a chance to work on it yet. 


### Add Solid Notification JSON-LD context
URL: https://github.com/solid/vocab/pull/62

>SC: We need to follow up on this after resolving some issues in solid/notifications (linked in the review). This should be published alongside the next release of the Notifications Protocol.

* SC: There is a separate discussion on the whole JSON-LD format etc.https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/105
* eP: It lead to https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/454


### JSON-LD structural requirements have issues
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/105

* SC: either use JSON-LD compact form or any JSON-LD serialization where there is some `profile` possibility there any way.
* eP: Recall RV saying expectations, we can clarify which elements for implementations for separation of concerns. One part can do the subscription and the other for delivery. the part for the subscription, it needs to get the storage description.. so it needs to have the capability to get the channel . and I think that should be JSON-LD. If there is a part that doesn't need to support RDF, we can separate.
* AC: Recently spent time working on systems in code with embedded devices and in these cases we don't have good RDF parsers. There is not much we can do with RDF parsing. So that's one fact. Another: generally what i'm seeing in JSON-LD community having an entity receiving a JSON-LD payload and arbitrarily dereferencing JSON-LD context is a security issue. A server that receives an unknown JSON-LD context, it shouldn't dereference. the way I'm looking at this in other W3C groups, specifically VC. the context is your model in a specific domain. a client of that has two choices. they can either recognised that context and process or not. that's the approach that basically only for embedded devices that cares about security. the other is when you do full on JSON-LD parse, dereference the context if you don't have it internally. you process the JSON-LD payload as RDF graph. that's appropriate in some contexts and not possible in others. we have to be clear about what the context is and operating in. in the context of notifications we are often dealing with we are dealing with small non-rdf clients. it is not like the solid server doing this. That's why this is relevant. specifically for those contexts where they don't have full RDF processing engine.
* SC: Related topic is this Web of Things stuff: https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/456 . And they have some JSON-LD things going on and notifications API. So, as a trial task force or work force or research group or whatever, can we have a closer look at that and see if/how/where what we are doing here could align with that work. that might shed some light on the JSON-LD approach. I think they say JSON but the payload is in JSON-LD but not entirely clear about how they are going to address the concerns that we are having here. so we may be ahead of their thinking. I don't know but can we verify that?
* EP: Good idea but don't have time. AC, do you know the capacity of compacting, especially if the graph could be structured in more than one trees. The order of statements of where it can be compacted. If you want something more that's where you start framing.
* AC: With a compact JSON-LD with a particular structure, that's kind of what we have now along the lines of other specifications, including AS, ODRL, VC. Frame allows you to take the base model and restructure. If you had a need to where that base frame / context wasn't the right structure and you wanted to reframe.
* EP: Thinking about compacting, ultimately have a cycling graph, depending on the order of statements it could be compacted differently. As soon as you have a more complex graph, compacting can give a different result because of the cycles.
* AC: Going from arbitrary graph to compact notation, that's where I'm not entirely sure how feasible that is. What I've seen is: if you want to take an arbitrary graph and put it into compact for, you'd use the frame (or some other logic resulting in that). For cycles and things, I'd address that at the domain level. I wouldn't rely on arbitrary or compact and do its job and hope for the best.
* EP: e.g., as long as there is no cycles, or if there are cycles, you need to frame or guarantee. Where is the limit of compacting or framing.
* SC: Maybe the WoT people found a solution.



### Too Slow: Please provide Updates-Via shortcut to secure web socket address
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/110

* eP: I think we need to answer first how AuthN/AuthZ is taken into account in Notifications Protocol. Reliance of Capabilities URL where client doesn't need to make authenticated request IMO is already taking some AuthN aspect incorporated.
* SC: Some diff has to do with authorization / notification server and solid resource server. Let's continue in the issue.
* AC: I find it striking that we talk about performance without any data. It's very theoretical. I see it undervaluing running Websocket infrastructure at scale which I see missed here. It's very different than running restful HTTP. In order to run it at scale you need to separate those services into separate entities. It leads to issues that can become very complicated.
* ...: Fundamentally it has to do with AuthN/AuthZ. Also if you start passing capability URL in every single request there is some security issues there.
* ...: If we make use of very specific interaction where payload includes capability URL is very different than returning it from every single request.
* AC: If Updates-via is wanted, then that's an alternative approach to notifications. If you want to write a solid server that supports WebDAV, that's fine. that's different than requiring it. if solid protocol requires updates-via, that'd be concerning for the reasons around security and scalability.

ACTION: SC to comment.

ACTION: AC to comment.

ACTION: EP to comment.
