# W3C Solid Community Group: Notifications Panel

* Date: 2023-01-05T17:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-notifications
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/notifications-panel
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel
* Status: Published


## Present
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* elf Pavlik
* Aaron Coburn
* [Ted Thibodeau](https://github.com/TallTed) (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com) (hard stop at 17:30Z)
* [Rahul Gupta](https://cxres.pages.dev)

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts
* [W3C Solid Community Group Calendar](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/solid/calendar).
* [W3C Solid Community Group Meeting Guidelines](https://github.com/solid/specification/blob/main/meetings/README.md).
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.
* Topics can be proposed at the bottom of the agenda to be discussed as time allows. Make it known if a topic is urgent or cannot be postponed.


### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* SC


### Introductions
* name: text

---

## Topics

* SC: Keeping the topics focused on work we need to iron out for the next release.

### WIP Implementation Feedback
* SC: We'll allocate some time for implementation feedback. Links to servers/applications and demos welcome.


### Deliverables

* **notifications-protocol** (Version 0.2.0)
    * https://github.com/solid/specification/pull/491
    * https://github.com/solid/notifications/tree/TR/2022/notifications-protocol-20221231 (just a snapshot for the solid/specification PR and then it'll be read-only)
* **ns/solid/notifications**
    * https://github.com/solid/vocab/pull/85 -- will be updated if/when channel types are published but probably doesn't need to wait for them as long as [491](https://github.com/solid/specification/pull/491) is merged.
    * eP: Should the notification json-ld/context include WebPush or other channel specific type terms?
    * SC: Are there generic notions that can work for WebPush and other types?
    * eP: How do we handle breaking changes?
    * SC: Context and vocab was never published previously. pre-v0.2.0 there wasn't nothing really interoperable.
    * eP: WebSocketSubscription2021 will never work.
    * eP: Similar for WebHook. The context will never be published
    * SC: Right.
    * eP: Consider releasing v2 of context?
    * AC: No strong opinion. v1 wasn't published so we can go ahead with that. If an implementation was built with v1 having property available, the workaround to define secondary context. Not hugely in favour of v1 and then v2.
    * eP: Publishing and not supporting may not be great.
    * eP: We can follow up with implementers re 2021 channel types, especially WebHook.
    * SC: Suggest to go with v1 and 2023 line of work.
    * eP: +1
    * AC: +1
    * TT: +0
    * AC: I support independent versioning of specs and context. Out in the wild versioned contexts just use v1 v2 etc.
    * TT: Patches happen — to a major or minor version. Context could link to specific version of the spec.
    * SC: Context and vocab could change independently of a spec.
    * TT: I meant vocab spec not the protocol spec.
    * AC: Let's start with V1, if there is need ever for V1.1 we will deal with it then.
* **notifications-ucr** — SC to update and PR in solid/notifications
* **notification-subscription-types**
    * SC: I mentioned the situation yesterday during community call, asking if we can reuse `/TR/` to include registered channel types. There was some agreement on that, and differentiating between all the work items and items specific to notification channel types. I used it as an example; other specs may do something similar. I was worrying that due to renaming we would need to register another document.
    * ...: current notification-subscription-types has a section on Indexing Procedure. This will go back into notifications protocol.
    * SC: This will require an update to Notifications Protocol. Can we update it in a way to be listed under solidproject.org/TR/#notification-channel-types?
    * eP: +1
    * AC: +1
    * RG: +1
    * eP: Seems other specs could also use it, e.g., OIDC, UMA.
    * SC: SC to update ED and PR.
* **WebSocketSubscription2021 → WebSocketChannel2023(?)** — AC to create in solid/notifications. AC (or SC?) to PR at solid/specification
    * SC: WebSocketChannel2023 ED is in. There are some related issues to follow-up. Can you AC?
    * AC: Yes.
    * SC: Do you have any timeline?
    * AC: This will happen this week.
* **StreamingHTTPSubscription2021** — eP to create 2023. https://github.com/solid/notifications/pull/139
    * eP: Noticed it'd be good to have clarity on `requirementSubject`. I think that'd be product for the Notification Protocol spec.
    * SC: How does it work for SKOS concepts?
    * eP: I think `skos:narrower` and `skos:broader`
    * SC: Channel Type spec should narrow notification sender? I think it should specify it's own product class even if it uses the same term. It should be skos:narrower of one defined in the protocol.
    * SC: e.g., `<https://solidproject.org/TR/streaming-http-channel-2023-20230105#NotificationSender> skos:broader <https://solidproject.org/TR/notifications-protocol-20221231#NotificationSender>`.
    * SC: https://www.w3.org/TR/spec-variability/
      _Specifications may have to define their own classes of product if none of these fits._
    * eP: SGTM, if needed we can revisit it later
* **EventSourceSubscription2021** — AC to create `EventSourceChannel2023`
    * AC: Will look into it after after WebSocket
* **LinkedDataNotificationsSubscription2021 → LDNChannel2023(?)** — SC to PR at `solid/notifications` and PR at `solid/specification`
    * SC: Rough plan to have it for next week.
* **WebHookSubscription2021 → WebHookChannel2023** — eP to redo [PR#113](https://github.com/solid/notifications/pull/113)
    * SC: Jackson needs to be more involved?
    * eP: I can look into it next week. Have a good idea what needs it.
* **WebPushSubscription2023** — CB may create WebPushChannel2023 when notifications-protocol is more "stable".
    * eP: I can suggest changes. https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/140
* **Implementations** — Partial.
  |Product Class|Implementation|ChannelType|
  |-|-|-|
  |ResourceServer|[CSS][CSS]|inapplicable|
  |SubscriptionClient|[dokieli](https://github.com/linkeddata/dokieli), [solid-webhook-client](https://github.com/o-development/solid-webhook-client)|dokieli (WebSocketChannel2023, LDNChannel2023), solid-webhook-client (WebHookSubscription2021, WebHookChannel2023)|
  |SubscriptionServer|[CSS][CSS] (WebHookSubscription2021)||
  |NotificationSender|[CSS][CSS] (WebHookSubscription2021)||
  |NotificationReceiver|[CSS][CSS]?, solid-webhook-client|solid-webhook-client (WebHookSubscription2021, WebHookChannel2023)|
    * AC: re ESS, product decision. Have been waiting on stability.
    * SC: How about 0.2 or 0.3? Needs test suite?
* **Test Suite** — Incomplete.

[CSS]: https://github.com/CommunitySolidServer/CommunitySolidServer

---


### Rename Subscription Resource to Subscription Service?
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/63


### Spec queries found while testing
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/98

* SC: Commented for AC to see WebSocket parts.

### A consistent naming scheme for Channel Types
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/34

* SC: Commented.

### How can we version the notifications mechanism?
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/10

* SC: 0.2 or 0.9 perhaps for the next release. will deal with it at the time PR depending on mood and the moon.

---

* SC: The following may already be addressed but we need to walk through / resolve.

### Is the proposed notification endpoint negotiation tied to OIDC?
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/21

* SC: Commented.

### How does the proposed notification mechanism work?
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/8

### Upgrade live update using to web sockets to "Secure Web Sockets"
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/13

### Clarify you can watch a WebSocket for a resource to be created
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/5

### WebSocket authentication/authorization
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/4

### Recursion of WebSocket subscription requests
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/20

### Too Slow: Please provide Updates-Via shortcut to secure web socket address
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/110

---

### Several questions after implementing
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/114
