# W3C Solid Community Group: Notifications Panel

* Date: 2023-05-18T14:00:00Z
* Call: https://meet.jit.si/solid-notifications
* Chat: https://gitter.im/solid/notifications-panel
* Repository: https://github.com/solid/notifications-panel
* Status: Published


## Present
* [Sarven Capadisli](https://csarven.ca/#i)
* elf Pavlik
* [Hadrian Zbarcea](https://hadrian.solidcommunity.net/profile/card#me)
* [Rahul Gupta](https://cxres.pages.dev)

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts
* [W3C Solid Community Group Calendar](https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/solid/calendar).
* [W3C Solid Community Group Meeting Guidelines](https://github.com/solid/specification/blob/main/meetings/README.md).
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Join queue to talk.
* Topics can be proposed at the bottom of the agenda to be discussed as time allows. Make it known if a topic is urgent or cannot be postponed.


### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/main/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/)
* Operating principle for effective participation is to allow access across disabilities, across country borders, and across time. Feedback on tooling and meeting timing is welcome.
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.


### Scribes
* SC


### Introductions
* name: text

---

## Topics


### WIP Implementation Feedback
* SC: We'll allocate some time for implementation feedback or interest to implement. Links to products/projects and demos welcome.


### Milestones
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/milestone/1


### Fix Conformance sections for Channel Type Specifications
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/175

* eP: bikeshed templates have autogenerated boilerplate conformance. RG, what did you mean re fixing?
* RG: Audio issue..
* SC: I think RG meant to make some of those notification-channel-type specs to use custom conformance.
* RG: Right. Templates are different and languages are mismatched as a result. Boilerplate language is not consistent.
* eP: What specifically?
* RG: Conformance re keywords (use UPPERCASE) and
* SC: https://solid.github.io/notifications/protocol#normative-informative-content is one we can re-use across all Notifications specs - same in Solid Protocol.
* SC: But the whole conformance section can have the same outline e.g.:
 * Normative and Informative Content
 * Specification Category
 * Classes of Products
 * Interoperability.
* RG: Copy that into include file and reuse in bikeshed.
* SC: Only use terms like "must" in capitals for normative (as per [RFC8174](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8174)), and leave them out otherwise for non-normative. Use other terms like encouragement/advisory as in the Normative/Informative Content. I borrowed that from the INFRA spec: https://infra.spec.whatwg.org/#conformance . They are also in the Spec Terms vocab: http://www.w3.org/ns/spec , e.g., `spec:MUST` , `spec:encouraged`. 


### Change JSON-LD context URI in Solid Notifications Protocol
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/pull/174

* SC: `https://www.w3.org/ns/solid/notifications-context/v1`.
* SC: One review approved by eP.
* SC: Any objections?
* RG: No opinion.
* HZ: No opinion.
* SC: We shouldn't bother to change it to `v1.jsonld` right? `v1` would make it simpler to have other representations.
* RG: Why "context" in the URL?
* SC: To differentiate the vocab URL and JSON-LD context URL.
* eP: We should merge. We don't control w3c ns. It was suggested to us. Don't bikeshed the URL.

ACTION: SC to merge, and follow up with W3C Team to publish.


### Add notify:filter feature
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/pull/176

* SC: Summarises UC and solution towards filtering.
* eP: Filter feature is cool/useful. Only worry that it may not be reliable unless we have normative mapping between Activity types and Solid storage operations. We need to have something similar here. I think there is no normative text about that.
* SC: It is implicit right now since the notifications-message-data-model already uses Activity types, so filter wouldn't be new. That aside, I agree it'd be very helpful to provide that mapping.
* eP: We don't have normative dependency on the Solid Protocol. When Solid Protocol is requiring Notifications Protocol, it could map the storage operations to activity types.
* eP: Agree it is separate but it is not sufficient to have reliable implementations. Servers may map differently. Operations in storage and notifications.
* eP: It should be normative text with tests. Storage emits this kind of notification. Most likely for each operation test could provide a shape.
* RG: Are we going to do this soon?
* SC: I think we should separate filter feature and the mapping of operations and Activity types.
* eP: Agree. Independently.
* SC: Lets create issue for mapping and then milestone.
* SC: Filter is 0.3.
* RG: I'd prefer 0.4 or 0.5.
* RG: Why are we using ActivityStreams? 
* SC: JSON-LD seemed most suitable concerning applications, see for example: https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/12#issuecomment-1144999202 and AS2 is most current / suitable for sending notifications on activities/events. Also used quite a bit in the wild. Like Fediverse.

ACTION: eP to review 176.

ACTION: eP to create issue in notifications repo for mapping storage operations and Activities.


### Include JSON-LD context verbatim in an appendix
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/170

* SC: Probably don't need this.

ACTION: eP to close (but may revisit in the future)



### SHACL shapes for data models
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/168


### Proposed optimization when using StreamingHTTP channel
https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/164



### Define unsubscribing
URL: https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/145

* SC: Hoped we could start this topic with whiteboarding. Not enough time left.

>ACTION: SC to summarize the key behaviours for some of these options.

* SC: Todo still.

>ACTION: eP to create a issue to discuss advising subscription services of authorization changes on topics.

* eP: https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/155
* eP: https://github.com/solid/notifications/issues/134
